---
title: 1019. General Palindromic Number (20)
date: 2018-1-21 21:55:07
tags: 
	- PAT
categories: PAT甲级题解
---

A number that will be the same when it is written forwards or backwards is known as a Palindromic Number. For example, 1234321 is a palindromic number. All single digit numbers are palindromic numbers.

Although palindromic numbers are most often considered in the decimal system, the concept of palindromicity can be applied to the natural numbers in any numeral system. Consider a number N > 0 in base b >= 2, where it is written in standard notation with k+1 digits ai as the sum of (aibi) for i from 0 to k. Here, as usual, 0 <= ai < b for all i and ak is non-zero. Then N is palindromic if and only if ai = ak-i for all i. Zero is written 0 in any base and is also palindromic by definition.

Given any non-negative decimal integer N and a base b, you are supposed to tell if N is a palindromic number in base b.

#### Input Specification:

Each input file contains one test case. Each case consists of two non-negative numbers N and b, where 0 <= N <= 109 is the decimal number and 2 <= b <= 109 is the base. The numbers are separated by a space.

#### Output Specification:

For each test case, first print in one line "Yes" if N is a palindromic number in base b, or "No" if not. Then in the next line, print N as the number in base b in the form "ak ak-1 ... a0". Notice that there must be no extra space at the end of output.

#### Sample Input 1:
27 2
#### Sample Output 1:
Yes
1 1 0 1 1
#### ample Input 2:
121 5
#### Sample Output 2:
No
4 4 1
***
**题目要求：**给定一个数的十进制形式n和它的基数b，判断它原来的形式是否为回文。

**思路：**首先用“除基取余法”得到b进制数，使用do……while语句可以保证n=0能正确取值。然后判断是否为回文。

```
#include<cstdio>
int main()
{
    int n,b,i,num=0;
    int a[32];

    scanf("%d%d",&n,&b);
    do{                 //n为0的时候也能进行一次循环
        a[num++]=n%b;
        n/=b;
    }while(n!=0);
    for(i=0;i<num/2;i++)    //不是回文的话提前退出循环
        if(a[i]!=a[num-i-1])
            break;
    printf("%s\n",i==num/2?"Yes":"No");
    for(i=num-1;i>0;i--)
        printf("%d ",a[i]);
    printf("%d\n",a[i]);
    return 0;
}
```