---
title: 1035. Password (20)
date: 2018-1-22 15:40:07
tags: 
	- PAT
categories: PAT甲级题解
---

To prepare for PAT, the judge sometimes has to generate random passwords for the users. The problem is that there are always some confusing passwords since it is hard to distinguish 1 (one) from l (L in lowercase), or 0 (zero) from O (o in uppercase). One solution is to replace 1 (one) by @, 0 (zero) by %, l by L, and O by o. Now it is your job to write a program to check the accounts generated by the judge, and to help the juge modify the confusing passwords.

#### Input Specification:

Each input file contains one test case. Each case contains a positive integer N (<= 1000), followed by N lines of accounts. Each account consists of a user name and a password, both are strings of no more than 10 characters with no space.

#### Output Specification:

For each test case, first print the number M of accounts that have been modified, then print in the following M lines the modified accounts info, that is, the user names and the corresponding modified passwords. The accounts must be printed in the same order as they are read in. If no account is modified, print in one line "There are N accounts and no account is modified" where N is the total number of accounts. However, if N is one, you must print "There is 1 account and no account is modified" instead.

#### Sample Input 1:

3
Team000002 Rlsp0dfa
Team000003 perfectpwd
Team000001 R1spOdfa
#### Sample Output 1:
2
Team000002 RLsp%dfa
Team000001 R@spodfa
#### Sample Input 2:
1
team110 abcdefg332
#### Sample Output 2:
There is 1 account and no account is modified
#### Sample Input 3:
2
team110 abcdefg222
team220 abcdefg333
#### Sample Output 3:
There are 2 accounts and no account is modified
***
**题目要求：**输入N个用户名和密码，把密码中的"10lO"替换成"@%Lo"。最后输出修改过的用户名和密码以及个数。

**思路：**用结构体数组存储用户名和密码，其中tag的值显示是否经过修改。

```
#include<cstdio>
#include<cstring>
#include<cstdlib>
typedef struct{
    int tag;
    char uid[11],pwd[11];
}User;
int main()
{
    int n,i,j,len,number=0;
    User *u;
    char a[5]="10lO",b[5]="@%Lo";

    scanf("%d",&n);
    u=(User*)malloc(sizeof(User)*n);
    for(i=0;i<n;i++){
        scanf(" %s %s",u[i].uid,u[i].pwd);
        len=strlen(u[i].pwd);
        u[i].tag=0;
        for(j=0;j<len;j++){
            char *p=strchr(a,u[i].pwd[j]);
            if(p!=NULL){
                u[i].tag=1;
                u[i].pwd[j]=b[p-a];
            }
        }
        if(u[i].tag) number++;
    }
    if(number!=0) printf("%d\n",number);
    else if(n==1) printf("There is 1 account and no account is modified\n");
    else printf("There are %d accounts and no account is modified\n",n);
    for(i=0;i<n;i++)
        if(u[i].tag)
            printf("%s %s\n",u[i].uid,u[i].pwd);
    return 0;
}
```