---
title: 1064. Complete Binary Search Tree (30)
date: 2018-2-11 21:00:07
tags: 
	- PAT
categories: PAT甲级题解
---

A Binary Search Tree (BST) is recursively defined as a binary tree which has the following properties:

The left subtree of a node contains only nodes with keys less than the node's key.
The right subtree of a node contains only nodes with keys greater than or equal to the node's key.
Both the left and right subtrees must also be binary search trees.
A Complete Binary Tree (CBT) is a tree that is completely filled, with the possible exception of the bottom level, which is filled from left to right.

Now given a sequence of distinct non-negative integer keys, a unique BST can be constructed if it is required that the tree must also be a CBT. You are supposed to output the level order traversal sequence of this BST.

#### Input Specification:

Each input file contains one test case. For each case, the first line contains a positive integer N (<=1000). Then N distinct non-negative integer keys are given in the next line. All the numbers in a line are separated by a space and are no greater than 2000.

#### Output Specification:

For each test case, print in one line the level order traversal sequence of the corresponding complete binary search tree. All the numbers in a line must be separated by a space, and there must be no extra space at the end of the line.

#### Sample Input:
10
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0
#### Sample Output:
6 3 8 1 5 7 9 0 2 4
***

**思路：**完全二叉树可以储存在一个数组bst中，若树根下标为k，则左子树的根为2k，右子树的根为2k+1。由于二叉查找树中序遍历的结果是有序的，可以把给定的序列排序，然后利用中序遍历把该序列中的数赋给数组bst，这样bst中就是所求的结果。

```
#include<cstdio>
#include<algorithm>
using namespace std;
#define MAX 1010
int n,bst[MAX],a[MAX],num=0;
void inorder(int root){//中序遍历
    if(root>n) return;
    inorder(root*2);
    bst[root]=a[num++];
    inorder(root*2+1);
}
int main()
{
    scanf("%d",&n);
    for(int i=0;i<n;i++)
        scanf("%d",&a[i]);
    sort(a,a+n);
    inorder(1);
    for(int i=1;i<=n;i++){
        printf("%d",bst[i]);
        if(i<n) printf(" ");
    }
    return 0;
}
```