---
title: 1101. Quick Sort (25)
date: 2018-2-1 16:00:07
tags: 
	- PAT
categories: PAT甲级题解
---

There is a classical process named partition in the famous quick sort algorithm. In this process we typically choose one element as the pivot. Then the elements less than the pivot are moved to its left and those larger than the pivot to its right. Given N distinct positive integers after a run of partition, could you tell how many elements could be the selected pivot for this partition?

For example, given N = 5 and the numbers 1, 3, 2, 4, and 5. We have:

1 could be the pivot since there is no element to its left and all the elements to its right are larger than it;
3 must not be the pivot since although all the elements to its left are smaller, the number 2 to its right is less than it as well;
2 must not be the pivot since although all the elements to its right are larger, the number 3 to its left is larger than it as well;
and for the similar reason, 4 and 5 could also be the pivot.
Hence in total there are 3 pivot candidates.

#### Input Specification:

Each input file contains one test case. For each case, the first line gives a positive integer N (<= 10^5). Then the next line contains N distinct positive integers no larger than 109. The numbers in a line are separated by spaces.

#### Output Specification:

For each test case, output in the first line the number of pivot candidates. Then in the next line print these candidates in increasing order. There must be exactly 1 space between two adjacent numbers, and no extra space at the end of each line.

#### Sample Input:
5
1 3 2 4 5
#### Sample Output:
3
1 4 5

***
**题目要求：**如果一个数左边都是比它小的数，右边都是比它大的数，就输出它。

**思路：**在输入数据的同时在一个数组max[i]中记录一个数左边比它大的数，如果没有，就记录它自身。然后从最后一个数开始循环，在min中记录这个数左边最小的数（包括它自身）,如果有a[i]=min并且a[i]=max[i]成立，就把这个数加入结果数组ans中。

```
#include<cstdio>
#include<vector>
using namespace std;
#define MAX 100000
int main()
{
    int n,i,a[MAX],max[MAX]={0},min;
    vector<int> ans;

    scanf("%d",&n);
    for(i=0;i<n;i++){
        scanf("%d",&a[i]);
        if(i==0||(i>0&&a[i]>max[i-1])) max[i]=a[i];
        else max[i]=max[i-1];
    }
    min=a[n-1];
    for(i=n-1;i>=0;i--){
        if(a[i]<min) min=a[i];
        if(a[i]==max[i]&&a[i]==min)
            ans.push_back(a[i]);
    }
    int len=ans.size();
    printf("%d\n",len);
    for(i=len-1;i>=0;i--){
        printf("%d",ans[i]);
        if(i>0) printf(" ");
    }
    printf("\n");
    return 0;
}
```