---
title: 1112. Stucked Keyboard (20)
date: 2018-2-5 16:00:07
tags: 
	- PAT
categories: PAT甲级题解
---

On a broken keyboard, some of the keys are always stucked. So when you type some sentences, the characters corresponding to those keys will appear repeatedly on screen for k times.

Now given a resulting string on screen, you are supposed to list all the possible stucked keys, and the original string.

Notice that there might be some characters that are typed repeatedly. The stucked key will always repeat output for a fixed k times whenever it is pressed. For example, when k=3, from the string "thiiis iiisss a teeeeeest" we know that the keys "i" and "e" might be stucked, but "s" is not even though it appears repeatedly sometimes. The original string could be "this isss a teest".

#### Input Specification:

Each input file contains one test case. For each case, the 1st line gives a positive integer k ( 1<k<=100 ) which is the output repeating times of a stucked key. The 2nd line contains the resulting string on screen, which consists of no more than 1000 characters from {a-z}, {0-9} and "_". It is guaranteed that the string is non-empty.

#### Output Specification:

For each test case, print in one line the possible stucked keys, in the order of being detected. Make sure that each key is printed once only. Then in the next line print the original string. It is guaranteed that there is at least one stucked key.

#### Sample Input:
3
caseee1__thiiis_iiisss_a_teeeeeest

#### Sample Output:
ei
case1__this_isss_a_teest
***
**题目要求：**给定一个数n和一个字符串，如果一个字符总是重复n次，则判定为坏键。按照发现的次序输出所有的坏键，然后输出原本的字符串。

**思路：**将hash[]初始值设为零。如果某个字符和它后边的n-1个字符相同，并且hash[i]为0，就判定为坏键，并将hash[i]设为1，然后跳过后边的n-1个字符；如果不是坏键的话，就把hash[i]设为-1。

```
#include<iostream>
#include<string>
using namespace std;
int main()
{
    int n,i,j,hash[256]={0};
    string s;

    cin>>n>>s;
    int len=s.length();
    for(i=0;i<=len-n;i++){
        for(j=1;j<n&&s[i+j]==s[i];j++);
        if(j==n){   //s[i]与后边的n-1个数相同,判断为坏键
            if(hash[s[i]]==0)
                hash[s[i]]=1;
            i+=(n-1);
        }
        else hash[s[i]]=-1; //正常键
    }
    for(i=0;i<len;i++){ //输出坏键
        if(hash[s[i]]==1){
            cout<<s[i];
            hash[s[i]]=2;
        }
    }
    cout<<endl;
    for(i=0;i<len;i++){ //输出原本的字符串
        cout<<s[i];
        if(hash[s[i]]>0)
            i+=(n-1);
    }
    return 0;
}
```